---
title: "Stochastic decomposition applied to large-scale hydro valleys management"
authors:'P. Carpentier, J-Ph. Chancelier, F. Pacaud, V.Leclère'
collection: publications
category: published
permalink: /publication/2018-DADP
excerpt: 'Application of DADP and other decomposition methods to large-scale hydro problem'
date: 2018-11-01
venue: 'European Journal of Operational Research'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0377221718304259'
citation: 'Carpentier, Pierre, et al. "Stochastic decomposition applied to large-scale hydro valleys management." European Journal of Operational Research 270.3 (2018): 1086-1098.'
---
We are interested in optimally controlling a discrete time dynamical system that can be influenced by
exogenous uncertainties. This is generally called a Stochastic Optimal Control (SOC) problem and the Dy-
namic Programming (DP) principle is one of the standard ways of solving it. Unfortunately, DP faces
the so-called curse of dimensionality: the complexity of solving DP equations grows exponentially with
the dimension of the variable that is sufficient to take optimal decisions (the so-called state variable).
For a large class of SOC problems, which includes important practical applications in energy manage-
ment, we propose an original way of obtaining near optimal controls. The algorithm we introduce is
based on Lagrangian relaxation, of which the application to decomposition is well-known in the deter-
ministic framework. However, its application to such closed-loop problems is not straightforward and an
additional statistical approximation concerning the dual process is needed. The resulting methodology is
called Dual Approximate Dynamic Programming (DADP). We briefly present DADP, give interpretations
and enlighten the error induced by the approximation. The paper is mainly devoted to applying DADP
to the management of large hydro valleys. The modeling of such systems is presented, as well as the
practical implementation of the methodology. Numerical results are provided on several valleys, and we
compare our approach with the state of the art SDDP method.

[Download paper here](../files/papers/2018-DADP.pdf)

